README.md, before:

# PyPiSD (PyPi Source Distribution)

CLI tool to fetch source distribution url links from https://pypi.org for a given python package and its version.


## How to use it

### Fetching source distribution url's from environment

Running `pypisd` in your command line, the tool will fetch the packages installed in the environment where the command runs. In the background, it fetches this list by runing `pip list`.

### Fetching source distribution url's from file
You can get the list of distribution links by providing a file that contains the list of libraries (like a requirements.txt file) or a file where in each line, library name and version are separated with a comma. You can see an example of what type of formats are allowed in `tests/test_input_file.txt`

```
$ pypisd --output_file="my_file_csv"
```


### Output of the CLI task

After running `pypisd` the output will be saved in a csv file. By default, the file name is "pypi_sd_links.csv".
You can providen the file name where the output should be saved by running:

```
$ pypisd --output_file="my_file_csv"
```

```
$ pypisd --o="my_file_csv"
```


The file has the following columns:

- library_name: Name of the library.
- version: version of the library. If none could be read from the environment/input file, "using latest version" will be used instead.
- license: Defines the license that the library uses
- source_distribution_link: Link to download the source distribution for this given library&version. If not found, it will be replaced by "Can not find download link for My Library, version 0.0.1"


| library_name      | version | license | source_distribution_link |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
|bs4 | 0.0.1 | Not found| https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/10/ed/7e8b97591f6f456174139ec089c769f89a94a1a4025fe967691de971f314/bs4-0.0.1.tar.gz |
|beautifulsoup4|4.10.0|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/a1/69/daeee6d8f22c997e522cdbeb59641c4d31ab120aba0f2c799500f7456b7e/beautifulsoup4-4.10.0.tar.gz
idna|3.3|BSD License (BSD-3-Clause)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/62/08/e3fc7c8161090f742f504f40b1bccbfc544d4a4e09eb774bf40aafce5436/idna-3.3.tar.gz|
|attrs|21.4.0|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/d7/77/ebb15fc26d0f815839ecd897b919ed6d85c050feeb83e100e020df9153d2/attrs-21.4.0.tar.gz|
|certifi|2021.10.8|Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL 2.0) (MPL-2.0)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/6c/ae/d26450834f0acc9e3d1f74508da6df1551ceab6c2ce0766a593362d6d57f/certifi-2021.10.8.tar.gz|
|packaging|21.3|"Apache Software License BSD License (BSD-2-Clause or Apache-2.0)"|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/df/9e/d1a7217f69310c1db8fdf8ab396229f55a699ce34a203691794c5d1cad0c/packaging-21.3.tar.gz|
|pluggy|0.13.1|MIT License (MIT license)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/f8/04/7a8542bed4b16a65c2714bf76cf5a0b026157da7f75e87cc88774aa10b14/pluggy-0.13.1.tar.gz|
|charset-normalizer|2.0.12|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/56/31/7bcaf657fafb3c6db8c787a865434290b726653c912085fbd371e9b92e1c/charset-normalizer-2.0.12.tar.gz|
|pypisd|0.1.0|Not found|"Can not find download link for pypisd, version 0.1.0"|
|more-itertools|8.12.0|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/dc/b5/c216ffeace7b89b7387fe08e1b39a07c6da38ea82c60e2e630dd5883813b/more-itertools-8.12.0.tar.gz|
|pip|22.0.4|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/33/c9/e2164122d365d8f823213a53970fa3005eb16218edcfc56ca24cb6deba2b/pip-22.0.4.tar.gz|
|py|1.11.0|MIT License (MIT license)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/98/ff/fec109ceb715d2a6b4c4a85a61af3b40c723a961e8828319fbcb15b868dc/py-1.11.0.tar.gz|
|pyparsing|3.0.7|MIT License (MIT License)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/d6/60/9bed18f43275b34198eb9720d4c1238c68b3755620d20df0afd89424d32b/pyparsing-3.0.7.tar.gz|
|soupsieve|2.3.1|MIT License (MIT License)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/e1/25/a3005eedafb34e1258458e8a4b94900a60a41a2b4e459e0e19631648a2a0/soupsieve-2.3.1.tar.gz|
|pytest|5.4.3|MIT License (MIT license)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/8f/c4/e4a645f8a3d6c6993cb3934ee593e705947dfafad4ca5148b9a0fde7359c/pytest-5.4.3.tar.gz|
|wcwidth|0.2.5|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/89/38/459b727c381504f361832b9e5ace19966de1a235d73cdbdea91c771a1155/wcwidth-0.2.5.tar.gz|
|wheel|0.37.1|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/c0/6c/9f840c2e55b67b90745af06a540964b73589256cb10cc10057c87ac78fc2/wheel-0.37.1.tar.gz|
|requests|2.27.1|Apache Software License (Apache 2.0)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/60/f3/26ff3767f099b73e0efa138a9998da67890793bfa475d8278f84a30fec77/requests-2.27.1.tar.gz|
|urllib3|1.26.9|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/1b/a5/4eab74853625505725cefdf168f48661b2cd04e7843ab836f3f63abf81da/urllib3-1.26.9.tar.gz|
|setuptools|61.0.0|MIT License|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/cf/68/bc4babfa1f0853d9164ed8f9fc97e3cc8293fa6e77277fb1a72b4de75ba5/setuptools-61.0.0.tar.gz|

Commit message:

read dependencies froma  .toml file

README.md, after:

# PyPiSD (PyPi Source Distribution)

CLI tool to fetch source distribution url links from https://pypi.org for a given python package and its version.


## How to use it

### Fetching source distribution url's from environment

Running `pypisd` in your command line, the tool will fetch the packages installed in the environment where the command runs. In the background, it fetches this list by runing `pip list`.

### Fetching source distribution url's from file
You can get the list of distribution links by providing a file that contains the list of libraries (like a requirements.txt file) or a file where in each line, library name and version are separated with a comma. You can see an example of what type of formats are allowed in `tests/test_input_file.txt`.

```
$ pypisd --input_file=tests/test_input_file.txt
```

You can provide a toml file as an input too, and will get the source distribution links for the dependencies defined inside

```
$ pypisd --input_file=tests/pyproject_test.toml
```

### Output of the CLI task

After running `pypisd` the output will be saved in a csv file. By default, the file name is "pypi_sd_links.csv".
You can providen the file name where the output should be saved by running:

```
$ pypisd --output_file="my_file_csv"
```

```
$ pypisd --o="my_file_csv"
```


The file has the following columns:

- library_name: Name of the library.
- version: version of the library. If none could be read from the environment/input file, "using latest version" will be used instead.
- license: Defines the license that the library uses
- source_distribution_link: Link to download the source distribution for this given library&version. If not found, it will be replaced by "Can not find download link for My Library, version 0.0.1"


| library_name      | version | license | source_distribution_link |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
|bs4 | 0.0.1 | Not found| https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/10/ed/7e8b97591f6f456174139ec089c769f89a94a1a4025fe967691de971f314/bs4-0.0.1.tar.gz |
|beautifulsoup4|4.10.0|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/a1/69/daeee6d8f22c997e522cdbeb59641c4d31ab120aba0f2c799500f7456b7e/beautifulsoup4-4.10.0.tar.gz
idna|3.3|BSD License (BSD-3-Clause)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/62/08/e3fc7c8161090f742f504f40b1bccbfc544d4a4e09eb774bf40aafce5436/idna-3.3.tar.gz|
|attrs|21.4.0|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/d7/77/ebb15fc26d0f815839ecd897b919ed6d85c050feeb83e100e020df9153d2/attrs-21.4.0.tar.gz|
|certifi|2021.10.8|Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL 2.0) (MPL-2.0)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/6c/ae/d26450834f0acc9e3d1f74508da6df1551ceab6c2ce0766a593362d6d57f/certifi-2021.10.8.tar.gz|
|packaging|21.3|"Apache Software License BSD License (BSD-2-Clause or Apache-2.0)"|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/df/9e/d1a7217f69310c1db8fdf8ab396229f55a699ce34a203691794c5d1cad0c/packaging-21.3.tar.gz|
|pluggy|0.13.1|MIT License (MIT license)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/f8/04/7a8542bed4b16a65c2714bf76cf5a0b026157da7f75e87cc88774aa10b14/pluggy-0.13.1.tar.gz|
|charset-normalizer|2.0.12|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/56/31/7bcaf657fafb3c6db8c787a865434290b726653c912085fbd371e9b92e1c/charset-normalizer-2.0.12.tar.gz|
|pypisd|0.1.0|Not found|"Can not find download link for pypisd, version 0.1.0"|
|more-itertools|8.12.0|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/dc/b5/c216ffeace7b89b7387fe08e1b39a07c6da38ea82c60e2e630dd5883813b/more-itertools-8.12.0.tar.gz|
|pip|22.0.4|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/33/c9/e2164122d365d8f823213a53970fa3005eb16218edcfc56ca24cb6deba2b/pip-22.0.4.tar.gz|
|py|1.11.0|MIT License (MIT license)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/98/ff/fec109ceb715d2a6b4c4a85a61af3b40c723a961e8828319fbcb15b868dc/py-1.11.0.tar.gz|
|pyparsing|3.0.7|MIT License (MIT License)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/d6/60/9bed18f43275b34198eb9720d4c1238c68b3755620d20df0afd89424d32b/pyparsing-3.0.7.tar.gz|
|soupsieve|2.3.1|MIT License (MIT License)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/e1/25/a3005eedafb34e1258458e8a4b94900a60a41a2b4e459e0e19631648a2a0/soupsieve-2.3.1.tar.gz|
|pytest|5.4.3|MIT License (MIT license)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/8f/c4/e4a645f8a3d6c6993cb3934ee593e705947dfafad4ca5148b9a0fde7359c/pytest-5.4.3.tar.gz|
|wcwidth|0.2.5|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/89/38/459b727c381504f361832b9e5ace19966de1a235d73cdbdea91c771a1155/wcwidth-0.2.5.tar.gz|
|wheel|0.37.1|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/c0/6c/9f840c2e55b67b90745af06a540964b73589256cb10cc10057c87ac78fc2/wheel-0.37.1.tar.gz|
|requests|2.27.1|Apache Software License (Apache 2.0)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/60/f3/26ff3767f099b73e0efa138a9998da67890793bfa475d8278f84a30fec77/requests-2.27.1.tar.gz|
|urllib3|1.26.9|MIT License (MIT)|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/1b/a5/4eab74853625505725cefdf168f48661b2cd04e7843ab836f3f63abf81da/urllib3-1.26.9.tar.gz|
|setuptools|61.0.0|MIT License|https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/cf/68/bc4babfa1f0853d9164ed8f9fc97e3cc8293fa6e77277fb1a72b4de75ba5/setuptools-61.0.0.tar.gz|
